Case Study
The car hire firm Happy-Holidays, requires a database system to manage their fleet of hire
vehicles. Each vehicle in the fleet has a unique fleet membership number (N 3). Also recorded
is the vehicle's registration number (S 7), colour (S 20), and make (S 8). All cars are the current
model. If a car is fitted with a mobile phone, its phone number (S 12) is recorded.
Happy-Holidays has multiple depots. Each depot has an identification code (N 2). The following
information for each depot is also recorded: depot's address (A), 1 to 4 phone numbers (S 14),
and an email address(S 24). The current location (depot) of vehicles available for hire is
recorded.

The firm has several different types of daily hire tariffs. For each type, an identification code (S
2) is recorded only with a description of the conditions under which it applies (S 50). For each
make of car, the daily rental tariff ($ 3) is recorded for each of the tariff types. Also daily
insurance tariff ($ 3) is recorded.

When a vehicle is hired, the depot from which it is hired, and the hire time and date (D) are
recorded. The hirer (client) involved is recorded along with the type (S 2) and number (S 20) of
the credit card to be used to pay for that hire. There will be one or up to three persons recorded
as being nominated drivers of the hired vehicle (None of these have to be the hirer). A vehicle's
odometer reading (N 5) (distance travelled) is recorded when it is hired. At any one time, only
one vehicle is on hire to a customer. Also recorded is the applicable tariff type, the number of
hire days (N 2) and an indication (S 1) as to whether insurance has been taken out for each hire.

A make of vehicle may also be booked for a future hiring, in which case, the nominated pick-up
depot, the starting time and date for the booking (D), and the intended number of hire days (N2)
are recorded. An optional preferred colour (S 12) may be recorded. A client may make any
number of bookings. A vehicle can be one of the following types: EV, Hybrid, Fuel.

The firm records the individual details of any client the first time that the person or the
company1 has business with the company. A client's name (C), address (A), one or two contact
phone numbers (S 14), and one or two email address (S 20) are recorded along with a
generated unique client identifier. This identifier is used for all subsequent references to that
client. If the client is a company, they must have a (single) nominated person also recorded as
their representative. The details of such representatives are recorded as though they were
person clients. A (person) client's driver's license number (S 12) is recorded the first time that
they hire a vehicle or are a nominated driver
